# Fluid simulation of ion acoustic solitary wave

This code can be used to perform the fluid simualtion of the ion acoustic
solitary wave. It has been used to produce the result presented in the 
following research article 

1. [Lotekar et. al. Phy. Plasm., 2016](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4964478)
2. [Lotekar et. al. Phy. Plasm., 2017](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4991467)

## Numerical model 

The code is written for the plasma system consist of the fluid ion and 
superthermal electron. The ions are governed by fluid equation and 
electron followes the kappa/maxwellian/Cairn velocity distribution. 

User can choose plasma model from followeing list

1. Fluid ions - Suprthermal electrons
2. Fluid ions - thermal (Maxwellian) electron 
3. Fluid ions - non-thermal (Cairn's) electron 

To choose the model user need to change the associate flag in **./src/input.f90** 
file. 

## How to compile and run the code 

Following steps should follow to compile and execute the compile code.
* Change compile name in **makefile**. If you are using gfortran then ignore this step
* Execute **makefile** by typing
<pre><code>
make
</code></pre>

or 

<pre><code>
make -f makefile
</code></pre>

**makefile** generate executable file which name is  **"RUN*** . This name can be change
by editing **"makefile"**. 

* Execute compiled code (**"RUN"**). Run following command in terminal.  
<pre><code>
./RUN
</code></pre>


or to execute file in background do following.
<pre><code>
bash Job_submit_on_pc
</code></pre>

**"Job_submit_on_pc.sh"** is shell script which execute code in background and also 
like **"outputPC.log"** and **"errorPC.log"** to it, so any output or error generated by 
code can be seen. It also generate process id and store it into file **"process_ID.pid"**, 
which can use to kill the running code.

* Following command can be used to kill the execution of code in background 
<pre><code>
kill (process id)
</code></pre>

## Output display 

There three python scripts to display the output. 
* **"display_output.py"** show recently exported data (Phi and E)
* **"display_output_live.py"** show recently exported data and keep doing it until 
  you stop
* **"display_output_as_movie.py"** make the movie of the exported data    


