# Asymetric electron acoustic double layer 

This code is use to study the formation and evolution of the asymetric 
electron acoustic double layer. The plasma model consider here is 
stationary ions and fluid hot and cold electrons. 

This code is used to produce the result presented in the follwowing 
publication

[Lotekar el al, JGR, 2019](http://dx.doi.org/10.1029/2018JA026303)

## How to compile and run the code 

Following steps should follow to compile and execute the compile code.
* Change compile name in **makefile**. If you are using gfortran then ignore this step
* Execute **makefile** by typing
<pre><code>
make
</code></pre>

or 

<pre><code>
make -f makefile
</code></pre>

**makefile** generate executable file which name is  **"RUN*** . This name can be change
by editing **"makefile"**. 

* Execute compiled code (**"RUN"**). Run following command in terminal.  
<pre><code>
./RUN
</code></pre>


or to execute file in background do following.
<pre><code>
bash Job_submit_on_pc
</code></pre>

**"Job_submit_on_pc.sh"** is shell script which execute code in background and also 
link **"outputPC.log"** and **"errorPC.log"** to it, so any output or error generated by 
code can be seen. It also generates process id and store it into file **"process_ID.pid"**, 
which can use to kill the running code.

* Following command can be used to kill the execution of code which is running 
  in background 
<pre><code>
kill (process id)
</code></pre>

## Output display 

There are three python scripts to display the output. 
* **"display_output.py"** show recently exported data (Phi and E)
* **"display_output_live.py"** show recently exported data and keep doing it until 
  you stop
* **"display_output_as_movie.py"** make the movie of the exported data    

