# Supersoliton simulation 

This code has used to study the supersolitary wave (supersoliton) in 
three component plasma system. 

Here are the publication in which this code is used
1. [Lotekar et al., Phy. Plasma. 2019](http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.5119993)
2. [Kakad et al, Phy. Plasma, Lett. 2016](http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.4969078)

## How to compile and run the code 

Following steps should follow to compile and execute the compile code.
* Change compile name in **makefile**. If you are using gfortran then ignore this step
* Execute **makefile** by typing
<pre><code>
make
</code></pre>

or 

<pre><code>
make -f makefile
</code></pre>

**makefile** generate executable file which name is  **"RUN*** . This name can be change
by editing **"makefile"**. 

* Execute compiled code (**"RUN"**). Run following command in terminal.  
<pre><code>
./RUN
</code></pre>


or to execute file in background do following.
<pre><code>
bash Job_submit_on_pc
</code></pre>

**"Job_submit_on_pc.sh"** is shell script which execute code in background and also 
link **"outputPC.log"** and **"errorPC.log"** to it, so any output or error generated by 
code can be seen. It also generates process id and store it into file **"process_ID.pid"**, 
which can use to kill the running code.

* Following command can be used to kill the execution of code which is running 
  in background 
<pre><code>
kill (process id)
</code></pre>

## Output display 

There are three python scripts to display the output. 
* **"display_output.py"** show recently exported data (Phi and E)
* **"display_output_live.py"** show recently exported data and keep doing it until 
  you stop
* **"display_output_as_movie.py"** make the movie of the exported data    


